Infinispan client annotation marshaller support (#3582)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/infinispan-client-guide.adoc

}
----

Serialization of user types uses a library based on protobuf, called Protostream.

=== Annotation based Serialization

> This can be done automatically by adding annotations to your user classes from the protostream library

Reviewer: This sentence is unclear: `annotations to your user classes from the protostream library` .

Looks like the user classes are from the Protostream library, whereas I think you meant the annotations?

Author: Sure, I can cleanup.

> provided by Infinispan. In addition a single Initializer annoated interface is required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provided by Infinispan. In addition a single Initializer annotated interface is required
```

Author: :+1:

which controls how the supporting classes are generated.

Here is an example of how the preceding classes should be changed:

.Author.java
[source,java]
----
    @ProtoFactory
    public Author(String name, String surname) {
        this.name = Objects.requireNonNull(name);
        this.surname = Objects.requireNonNull(surname);
    }

    @ProtoField(number = 1)
    public String getName() {
        return name;
    }

    @ProtoField(number = 2)
    public String getSurname() {
        return surname;
    }
----

.Book.java
[source,java]
----
    @ProtoFactory
    public Book(String title, String description, int publicationYear, Set<Author> authors) {
        this.title = Objects.requireNonNull(title);
        this.description = Objects.requireNonNull(description);
        this.publicationYear = publicationYear;
        this.authors = Objects.requireNonNull(authors);
    }

    @ProtoField(number = 1)
    public String getTitle() {
        return title;
    }

    @ProtoField(number = 2)
    public String getDescription() {
        return description;
    }

>     @ProtoField(number = 3, defaultValue = "1970")

Reviewer 2: -1 is probably a better default to indicate the lack of a specified year. aka null :)

Author: Sure

    public int getPublicationYear() {
        return publicationYear;
    }

    @ProtoField(number = 4)
    public Set<Author> getAuthors() {
        return authors;
    }
----
If your classes have only mutable fields, then the `ProtoFactory` annotation
is not required, assuming your class has a no arg constructor.

> Then all that is required is a very simple ContextInitializer interface with an annotation

Reviewer 2: I think you actually mean ```SerializationContextInitializer```

Author: Sure, I was just making the word a bit smaller, but I can fully qualify :)

Author: Sure, I was just making the word a bit smaller, but I can fully qualify :)

> Then all that is required is a very simple SerializationContextInitializer interface with an annotation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then all that is required is a very simple `SerializationContextInitializer` interface with an annotation
```

Author: :+1:

on it to specify configuration settings

.BookContextInitializer.java
[source,java]
----
@AutoProtoSchemaBuilder(includeClasses = { Book.class, Author.class }, schemaPackageName = "book_sample")
interface BookContextInitializer extends SerializationContextInitializer {
}
----

So in this case we will automatically generate the marshaller and schemas for the included classes and
place them in the schema package automatically. The package does not have to be provided, but if you
utilize querying, you must know the generated package.

> NOTE: The `schemaFileName` and `schemaFilePath` attributes must NOT be set on the `AutoProtoSchemaBuilder` annotation. Failure to do so will cause native runtime to fail.

Reviewer 2: I'd rephrase a a bit to clarifiy 'do not do this in Quakus context', not in general. Those attributes do work and have purpose outside Quarkus.

Author: Well I was trying to qualify it being that it fails during native runtime. As in it is fine in JVM mode with Quarkus.

> NOTE: In Quarkus the `schemaFileName` and `schemaFilePath` attributes should NOT be set on the `AutoProtoSchemaBuilder` annotation, failure to do so will cause native runtime to error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: In Quarkus the `schemaFileName` and `schemaFilePath` attributes should NOT be set on the `AutoProtoSchemaBuilder` annotation, setting them will cause native runtime to error.
```
I think it would be clearer this way.

Author: Sure.

Author: I changed it to `setting either`

Author: I changed it to `setting either`

properties of the proto schema.

Query builds upon the proto definitions you can configure when setting up the `ProtoStreamMarshaller`.
Either method of Serialization above will automatically register the schema with the server at

> startup, meaning that you will automatically gain the ability to query objects store with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
startup, meaning that you will automatically gain the ability to query the objects store with
```
but I'm not sure what you mean. Is it `the objects store`, `the objects stored`?

Author: typo: supposed to be stored

the client.

You can do this by adding the following dependency to your project.

> 

Reviewer: Either you don't remove that or you also remove the `You can do this by adding the following dependency to your project.` sentence but there's something wrong here.

Author: Oops missed removing the other.
